CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to contributing

## Raising issues

If you found a bug or you'd like a new feature or change, you can [file an issue](https://github.com/gchq/ld-explorer/issues). Please provide full details of your issue, and if its a bug, ideally steps to reproduce.

Before making a new one, please search the existing issues to check if your change has already been requested. Comment on an issue to let us know you're interested.

## Contributing code

Prior to us accepting any work, you must sign the [GCHQ CLA Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/gchq/ld-explorer). We follow a branching strategy for handling contributions:

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/new_thing`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add a new thing'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/new_thing`)
5. Open a Pull Request

You can contribute code for any issue by raising a pull request from your own fork of the repository. Raise an issue for your change if there isn't one already.

Please engage with us before undertaking any significant amount of work and before starting work on any new features.

### Tests

Before opening a pull request, please ensure that the tests pass. See [Readme.md](./README.md) for details.

## Code of conduct

### Our pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project, and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

### Our standards

Examples of behaviour that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behaviour by participants include:

- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Public or private harassment
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

### Our responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behaviour and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behaviour.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from version 1.4 of the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/).

Commit message:

Add Version Info (#5)
Add versioning information and bump version to 0.1.0 - this is dynamically populated from the `package.json` file.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to contributing

## Raising issues

If you found a bug or you'd like a new feature or change, you can [file an issue](https://github.com/gchq/ld-explorer/issues). Please provide full details of your issue, and if its a bug, ideally steps to reproduce.

Before making a new one, please search the existing issues to check if your change has already been requested. Comment on an issue to let us know you're interested.

## Versioning

LD Explorer intends to follow [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/), which can be summarised roughly as follows:

- MAJOR version for incompatible or breaking changes, deprecated features or anytihng that prevents the user doing what they could previously do.
- MINOR version for any new functionality, or when marking existing functionality as deprecated.
- PATCH for backward compatible bug fixes or changes that the user isn't necessarily aware of. This includes upgrading dependencies and refactoring code.

Note that LD Explorer is currently in **Initial Development** and currently has a version number `0.x.x`. As per the Semantic Versioning specification, this means that anything MAY change at any time and the public API SHOULD NOT be considered stable. We will consider moving to `1.0.0` once we have observed that the software has proved its value and has a community of users.

## Contributing code

Prior to us accepting any work, you must sign the [GCHQ CLA Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/gchq/ld-explorer). We follow a branching strategy for handling contributions:

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/new_thing`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add a new thing'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/new_thing`)
5. Open a Pull Request

You can contribute code for any issue by raising a pull request from your own fork of the repository. Raise an issue for your change if there isn't one already.

Please engage with us before undertaking any significant amount of work and before starting work on any new features.

### Code Quality

Despite this being prototype software, we have still tried to keep the code to a high standard. Code quality is currently automated through various built-time checks (eslint, typescript...) which need to pass before pull requests will be accepted. Code quality will also be assured manually by trusted maintainers on any pull request.

### Tests

Before opening a pull request, please ensure that the tests pass. See [Readme.md](./README.md) for details.

## Code of conduct

### Our pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project, and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

### Our standards

Examples of behaviour that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behaviour by participants include:

- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Public or private harassment
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

### Our responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behaviour and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behaviour.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from version 1.4 of the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/).
